# Human-Activities-of-daily-living-Recognition-model

This project aims to classify human activities on the data set collected from smartphones. The activities can be classified as standing, sitting, walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, and laying. The model will predict the activity on the new data set and classify it into the above activities. The main objective of this project is to work on different algorithms and find the best-fit algorithm for the given data set with optimal accuracy. The importance of this project in the present-day scenario is to let the people know how much time they are spending doing an activity to act accordingly.

The data set is a collection of recordings of 30 study participants performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors. The objective is to classify activities into one of the six activities performed. I have visualized the data set using different graphs and, I have used different Machine learning algorithms and found the best algorithm depending on the accuracy. The algorithms are Logistic Regression, K Nearest Neighbors, and Decision tree. Using these algorithms, one can predict and calculate the accuracy and determine the best algorithm for the data set.

The accuracy of each machine learning algorithm was calculated by the accuracy_score package, imported from the sci-kit learn library. The logistic Regression algorithm gave an accuracy of 95.8%. The K nearest neighbor algorithm gave an accuracy of 90.02%. The Decision Tree algorithm gave an accuracy of 85.4%. The logistic algorithm showed the best accuracy out of the three algorithms. 

The conclusion can be made that the logistic regression machine learning algorithm can predict the new data sets. The further application of this project can be to notify the person if the activity is continued for an extended period; for example, if a person continues to sit for long hours, a message can be sent to a person through an SMS for a break.
